**Test Plan Template:**

(Name of the Product)

**Prepared by:**

(Names of Preparers)

(Date)

**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

1.0 INTRODUCTION

0.  > OBJECTIVES AND TASKS

1.  1.  > Objectives

    2.  > Tasks

3.0 SCOPE

0.  > Testing Strategy

1.  1.  > Alpha Testing (Unit Testing)

    2.  > System and Integration Testing

    3.  > Performance and Stress Testing

2.  1.  > User Acceptance Testing

    2.  > Batch Testing

    3.  > Automated Regression Testing

    4.  > Beta Testing

5.0 Hardware Requirements

0.  > Environment Requirements

1.  1.  > Main Frame

    2.  > Workstation

7.0 Test Schedule

8.0 Control Procedures

9.0 Features to Be Tested

10.0 Features Not to Be Tested

[]{#anchor}11.0 Resources/Roles & Responsibilities

12.0 Schedules

13.0 Significantly Impacted Departments (SIDs)

14.0 Dependencies

15.0 Risks/Assumptions

16.0 Tools

0.  0.  > Approvals

1.  > **INTRODUCTION **

A brief summary of the product being tested. Outline all the functions
at a high level.

0.  > **OBJECTIVES AND TASKS **

1.  > **Objectives **

Describe the objectives supported by the Master Test Plan, eg., defining
tasks and responsibilities, vehicle for communication, document to be
used as a service level agreement, etc.

2.  > **Tasks **

List all tasks identified by this Test Plan, i.e., testing,
post-testing, problem reporting, etc.

**3.0 SCOPE**

**General**

This section describes what is being tested, such as all the functions
of a specific product, its existing interfaces, integration of all
functions.

**Tactics**

List here how you will accomplish the items that you have listed in the
\"Scope\" section. For example, if you have mentioned that you will be
testing the existing interfaces, what would be the procedures you would
follow to notify the key people to represent their respective areas, as
well as allotting time in their schedule for assisting you in
accomplishing your activity?

**4.0 TESTING STRATEGY**

Describe the overall approach to testing. For each major group of
features or feature combinations, specify the approach which will ensure
that these feature groups are

[]{#anchor-1}adequately tested. Specify the major activities,
techniques, and tools which are used to test the designated groups of
features.

The approach should be described in sufficient detail to permit
identification of the major testing tasks and estimation of the time
required to do each one.

1.  > **Unit Testing **

**Definition:**

Specify the minimum degree of comprehensiveness desired. Identify the
techniques which will be used to judge the comprehensiveness of the
testing effort (for example, determining which statements have been
executed at least once). Specify any additional completion criteria (for
example, error frequency). The techniques to be used to trace
requirements should be specified.

**Participants:**

List the names of individuals/departments who would be responsible for
Unit Testing.

**Methodology:**

Describe how unit testing will be conducted. Who will write the test
scripts for the unit testing, what would be the sequence of events of
Unit Testing and how will the testing activity take place?

2.  > **System and Integration Testing **

**Definition:**

List what is your understanding of System and Integration Testing for
your project.

**Participants:**

Who will be conducting System and Integration Testing on your project?
List the individuals that will be responsible for this activity.

**Methodology:**

Describe how System & Integration testing will be conducted. Who will
write the test scripts for the unit testing, what would be sequence of
events of System & Integration Testing, and how will the testing
activity take place?

3.  > **Performance and Stress Testing **

**Definition:**

List what is your understanding of Stress Testing for your project.

**Participants:**

Who will be conducting Stress Testing on your project? List the
individuals that will be responsible for this activity.

[]{#anchor-2}**Methodology:**

Describe how Performance & Stress testing will be conducted. Who will
write the test scripts for the testing, what would be sequence of events
of Performance & Stress Testing, and how will the testing activity take
place?

4.  > **User Acceptance Testing **

**Definition:**

The purpose of acceptance test is to confirm that the system is ready
for operational use. During acceptance test, end-users (customers) of
the system compare the system to its initial requirements.

**Participants:**

Who will be responsible for User Acceptance Testing? List the
individuals\' names and responsibility.

**Methodology:**

Describe how the User Acceptance testing will be conducted. Who will
write the test scripts for the testing, what would be sequence of events
of User Acceptance Testing, and how will the testing activity take
place?

5.  > **Batch Testing **

6.  > **Automated Regression Testing **

**Definition:**

Regression testing is the selective retesting of a system or component
to verify that modifications have not caused unintended effects and that
the system or component still works as specified in the requirements.

**Participants:**

**Methodology:**

**4.7 Beta Testing**

**Participants:**

**Methodology:**

**5.0 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS**

Computers

Modems

0.  > **ENVIRONMENT REQUIREMENTS **

1.  > **Main Frame **

Specify both the necessary and desired properties of the test
environment. The

[]{#anchor-3}specification should contain the physical characteristics
of the facilities, including the hardware, the communications and system
software, the mode of usage (for example, stand-alone), and any other
software or supplies needed to support the test. Also specify the level
of security which must be provided for the test facility, system
software, and proprietary components such as software, data, and
hardware.

Identify special test tools needed. Identify any other testing needs
(for example, publications or office space). Identify the source of all
needs which are not currently available to your group.

2.  > **Workstation **

**7.0 TEST SCHEDULE**

Include test milestones identified in the Software Project Schedule as
well as all item transmittal events.

Define any additional test milestones needed. Estimate the time required
to do each testing task. Specify the schedule for each testing task and
test milestone. For each testing resource (that is, facilities, tools,
and staff), specify its periods of use.

**8.0 CONTROL PROCEDURES**

**Problem Reporting**

Document the procedures to follow when an incident is encountered during
the testing process. If a standard form is going to be used, attach a
blank copy as an \"Appendix\" to the Test Plan. In the event you are
using an automated incident logging system, write those procedures in
this section.

**Change Requests**

Document the process of modifications to the software. Identify who will
sign off on the changes and what would be the criteria for including the
changes to the current product. If the changes will affect existing
programs, these modules need to be identified.

**9.0 FEATURES TO BE TESTED**

Identify all software features and combinations of software features
that will be tested.

**10.0 FEATURES NOT TO BE TESTED**

Identify all features and significant combinations of features which
will not be tested and the reasons.

**11.0 RESOURCES/ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES**

[]{#anchor-4}

Specify the staff members who are involved in the test project and what
their roles are going to be (for example, Mary Brown (User) compile Test
Cases for Acceptance Testing). Identify groups responsible for managing,
designing, preparing, executing, and resolving the test activities as
well as related issues. Also identify groups responsible for providing
the test environment. These groups may include developers, testers,
operations staff, testing services, etc.

**12.0 SCHEDULES**

**Major Deliverables**

Identify the deliverable documents. You can list the following
documents:

- Test Plan
- Test Cases
- Test Incident Reports
- Test Summary Reports

**13.0 SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACTED DEPARTMENTS (SIDs)**

Department/Business Area Bus. Manager Tester(s)

**14.0 DEPENDENCIES**

Identify significant constraints on testing, such as test-item
availability, testing-resource availability, and deadlines.

**15.0 RISKS/ASSUMPTIONS**

Identify the high-risk assumptions of the test plan. Specify contingency
plans for each (for example, delay in delivery of test items might
require increased night shift scheduling to meet the delivery date).

**16.0 TOOLS**

List the Automation tools you are going to use. List also the Bug
tracking tool here.

**17.0 APPROVALS**

Specify the names and titles of all persons who must approve this plan.
Provide space for the signatures and dates.

Name (In Capital Letters) Signature Date

[]{#anchor-5}1.

2\.

3\.

4\.

End.
